neuroscientist anya hobart studies color
constancy because it may offer insight
into how the brain processes color color
constancy is so fundamental to the way
we see colors that we don't think about
it in everyday life we don't know how we
do it
and in order to understand how the human
visual system achieves color constancy
we need laboratory measurements of just
how good color constancy is to do this
she set up an experiment involving a
well-known set of objects fruit and
she's going to be asking people to try
and estimate the color of the banana as
the light changes your task here is to
match the color of the banana like you
to make another practice match this time
to the banana there are in fact two
yellows in the picture the banana and a
simple patch of the same yellow in the
background as the light changes
how will someone's perception of the
color of the banana and the patch change
is the match that a person makes to the
yellow banana different from the match
the person makes to a yellow patch if
the matches are different that means the
object is influencing color perception
experiments show they are different
people perceive the yellow patch as
changing as the light changes
but the yellow of the banana stays more
constant and the reason this color
constancy works on your beliefs is
because we should know what a banana
looks like one of the factors that might
contribute to color constancy in the
human visual system is object knowledge
so for example the fact that we know
that bananas are yellow and we've seen
bananas under many different
illuminations may enable us to perceive
the yellow of a banana as more constant
under changing illumination because we
know what color it should be
you